(EAI-173): Framework quickstart (#287)
mongodb/chatbot: docs/docs/quick-start.md

# Quick Start

This quick start guide walks you through the steps to get started building
a retrieval augmented generation (RAG) application with the MongoDB Chatbot Framework.

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) v18 or later on your development machine.
- [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas) account.
  - If you don't already have an account, you can create one for free.
- [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/docs/quickstart?context=node).
  - Get the API key from OpenAI, and keep it handy. You'll need it later.

## What You Will Build

In this guide, you will build a chatbot that answers questions about
the MongoDB Chatbot Framework using RAG.
You can extend what you set up in the quick start template
to build your own chatbot with the MongoDB Chatbot Framework.

To build the chatbot, you will:

1. Set up the MongoDB Atlas Database with Atlas Vector Search

> 1. Set up the project source code.

Reviewer: Inconsistent punctuation
```suggestion
1. Set up the project source code
```

1. Ingest the content that the chatbot uses to answer questions
1. Spin up a server and frontend to query the chatbot
1. Look at next steps that you can take to customize the chatbot

## Steps

### 1. Set up the MongoDB Atlas Database

> Log into MongoDB Atlas and create a new project. Create a new cluster in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log into [MongoDB Atlas](https://cloud.mongodb.com/) and create a new project. Create a new cluster in the project.
```

You can use the free tier cluster (M0). You **cannot** use a serverless cluster.

> Once the cluster is created, you must copy the connection string to use in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the cluster is created, copy the connection string to use in your project.
```

> In the Atlas UI on the cluster overview page, perform the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the connection string in the Atlas UI as follows:
```

1. Press the **Connect** button.
1. Press the **Drivers** button.
1. Copy the connection string and store it in a safe place.
   You will need it soon. If you haven't created a user yet, you can create one now.
   - If you need help creating a user, refer to [Configure Database Users](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/security-add-mongodb-users/) in the MongoDB Atlas documentation.

> Next you will create the database `mongodb-chatbot-framework-chatbot` with a collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create the database `mongodb-chatbot-framework-chatbot` with a collection
```

`embedded_content`. You can leave the collection empty for now.
In the Atlas UI, go to your cluster's overview page, and perform the following:

1. Go to the **Collections** tab.
1. Press the **Create Database** button.
1. In the modal window, add the database name `mongodb-chatbot-framework-chatbot`
   and collection name `embedded_content`. Then press **Create**.

> Once the database and collection are created, you will create an Atlas Vector Search index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the database and collection are created, create an Atlas Vector Search index
```

> on the `embedded_content` collection. This collection will be used to store vector embeddings. In the Atlas UI, perform the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the `embedded_content` collection. This collection will store vector embeddings of ingested content. In the Atlas UI, do the following:
```

1. Go to the **Atlas Search** tab.
1. Press the **Create Search Index** button.
1. Select the **Atlas Vector Search JSON Index** option, then press the **Next** button.
1. In the **Database and Collection** section, select the
   `mongodb-chatbot-framework-chatbot` database and `embedded_content` collection.

> 1. In the **Index Name** field, leave the default `vector_index`.

Reviewer: Actionless comment: Noted change from 'default' using actual vector index

1. In the index definition field, paste the following index definition:

   ```js
   {
     "fields": [
       {
         "numDimensions": 1536,
         "path": "embedding",
         "similarity": "cosine",
         "type": "vector"
       }
     ]
   }
   ```

1. Press the **Next** button, then on the next page press the **Create Search Index** button.
1. Wait for the index to be created. This should happen in under a minute.
   When the index is successfully created, you should see that the status is **Active**.

> Now the Atlas cluster and Vector Search index are ready for you to use in your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the Atlas cluster and Vector Search index are ready to use in your app.
```

### 2. Set up the Project

Clone the repository with the quick start source code:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/mongodb/chatbot.git
```

Enter the directory with the quick start source code:

```shell
cd examples/quick-start
```

All the remaining steps will be run from `examples/quick-start` directory.

This directory contains three packages, located in the `examples/quick-start/packages`:

- `ingest`: Contains implementation of the MongoDB Ingest CLI, which ingests the content that the chatbot uses to answer questions.
- `server`: Contains implementation of the MongoDB Chatbot Server, which serves the chatbot API.
- `ui`: Contains implementation of the MongoDB Chatbot UI, which provides a UI to query the chatbot server.

Install the dependencies for all the packages:

```shell
npm install
```

:::note

The quick start uses [npm workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/workspaces)
to manage the dependencies for all the packages.

:::

Create an `.env` file based on the .env.example file in the root of the project:

```shell
cp .env.example .env
```

In the `.env` file, fill in the values for `MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI` and `OPENAI_API_KEY`

> with you Atlas connection URI and OpenAI API Key, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with your Atlas connection URI and OpenAI API Key, respectively.
```

Reviewer: Kind of expected:
"If you don't have an OpenAI API Key, see..."

From the root of the project, run:

```shell
npm run ingest:all
```

If you've run the command successfully, you should an output resembling the following
in your terminal:

```shell
{"level":"info","message":"Logger created"}
{"level":"info","message":"Last successful run date: Thu Jan 04 2024 12:23:27 GMT-0500 (Eastern Standard Time)"}
{"level":"info","message":"Loaded sources:\n- mongodb-rag-framework"}
{"level":"info","message":"Fetching pages for mongodb-rag-framework"}
{"level":"info","message":"Created /var/folders/v3/128h981j6vx4ncq_68qcg2cm0000gp/T/mongodb-rag-frameworkV3BE8d for https://github.com/mongodb/chatbot/"}
# ...
{"level":"info","message":"Updating last successful run date"}
```

To learn more about how you can configure the MongoDB Ingest CLI,
refer to the [Configure the Ingest CLI](./ingest/configure.md) guide.

### 4. Query the Chatbot

In this step, you will spin up a server and frontend to query the chatbot.
You'll be able to ask questions about the MongoDB Chatbot Framework
using the data you ingested in the previous step.

Start the chatbot server and UI with:

```shell
npm run dev
```

> Open http://localhost:5173/ in your browser to see the UI.

Reviewer: Dumb question but just checking that because one is using their own OpenAI API key, there's no need to worry about VPN/MongoDB/Azure access rules etc?

Author: nah, there's none of that access control on the openai version.
